<h1>WheeledVehicle suspension datablocks</h1>
<p>The wheeled vehicle suspension simulation applies the forces generated through the vehicle drive train and accumulated through contact with game objects to the vehicle body. Lateral (steering) and longitudinal (acceleration/deceleration) forces are calculated based on the WheeledVehicleTire definition while verticle (Z-Axis) forces are calculated based on the settings defined in WheeledVehicleSpring.

<h2>WheeledVehicleTire</h2>
<p>Tires act as springs and generate lateral and longitudinal forces to move the vehicle. These distortion/spring forces are what convert wheel angular velocity into forces that act on the rigid body</p>

<table valgin=top>
  <tr>
  <thead colspan=2 style="text-align:center;"><center><b>WheeledVehicleTire Console Fields</b></center></thead>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>shapeFile</td>
    <td>The path to the shape to use for the wheel.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>staticFriction</td>
    <td>Tire friction when the wheel is not slipping (has traction).</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>kineticFriction</td>
    <td>Tire friction when the wheel is slipping (no traction).</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>lateralForce</td>
    <td>
	Tire force perpendicular to the direction of movement.<br><br>
	Lateral force can in simple terms be considered left/right steering force. WheeledVehicles are acted upon by forces generated by their tires and the lateralForce measures the magnitude of the force exerted on the vehicle when the tires are deformed along the x-axis. With real wheeled vehicles, tires are constantly being deformed and it is the interplay of deformation forces which determines how a vehicle moves. In Torque's simulation of vehicle physics, tire deformation obviously can't be handled with absolute realism, but the interplay of a vehicle's velocity, its engine's torque and braking forces, and its wheels' friction, lateral deformation, lateralDamping, lateralRelaxation, longitudinal deformation, longitudinalDamping, and longitudinalRelaxation forces, along with its wheels' angular velocity are combined to create a robust real-time physical simulation.<br><br>
      For this field, the larger the value supplied for the lateralForce, the larger the effect steering maneuvers can have. In Torque tire forces are applied at a vehicle's wheel hubs.
	</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>lateralDamping</td>
    <td>Damping force applied against lateral forces generated by the tire.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>lateralRelaxation</td>
    <td>
		Relaxing force applied against lateral forces generated by the tire.<br>
		The lateralRelaxation force measures how strongly the tire effectively un-deforms.
	</td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td>longitudinalForce</td>
    <td>
		Tire force in the direction of movement.<br><br>
		Longitudinal force can in simple terms be considered forward/backward movement force. WheeledVehicles are acted upon by forces generated by their tires and the longitudinalForce measures the magnitude of the force exerted on the vehicle when the tires are deformed along the y-axis.<br><br>
      	For this field, the larger the value, the larger the effect acceleration/deceleration inputs have.
	</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>longitudinalDamping</td>
    <td>Damping force applied against longitudinal forces generated by the tire.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>longitudinalRelaxation</td>
    <td>
		Relaxing force applied against longitudinal  forces generated by the tire.<br>
		The longitudinalRelaxation force measures how strongly the tire effectively un-deforms.
	</td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td>rollingResistance</td>
    <td>Represents drag to act as a dampening factor when wheel is rolling (not under power).</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>mass</td>
    <td>The mass of the wheel.(Currently unused)</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>radius</td>
    <td>The radius of the wheel. (Currently unused><br>The radius is determined from the bounding box of the shape provided in the shapefile field, and does not need to be specified in script. The tire should be built with its hub axis along the object's Y-axis.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>restitution</td>
    <td>Tire restitution.(Currently unused)</td>
  </tr>
</table>




<h2>WheeledVehicleSpring</h2>
<p>Springs act to generate verticle forces on the vehicle. These forces are converted to angular velocity and applied to the rigid body.</p>
<table>
  <tr>
  <thead colspan=2 style="text-align:center;"><center><b>WheeledVehicleSpring Console Fields</b></center></thead>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>length</td>
    <td> Maximum spring length. ie. how far the wheel can extend from the root hub position.<br><br>
    This should be set to the vertical (Z) distance the hub travels in the associated spring animation.
    </td>
  </tr>  
  <tr>
    <td>force</td>
    <td>Maximum spring force (when compressed to minimum length, 0).<br><br>
      Increasing this will make the vehicle suspension ride higher (for a given vehicle mass), and also make the vehicle more bouncy when landing jumps.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>damping</td>
    <td>Force applied to slow changes to the extension of this spring.<br><br>
      Increasing this makes the suspension stiffer which can help stabilise bouncy vehicles.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>antiSwayForce</td>
    <td> Force applied to equalize extension of the spring on the opposite wheel.<br><br>
      This force helps to keep the suspension balanced when opposite wheels are at different heights.
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

