<h1>WheeledVehicle vehicle control datablocks</h1>
<p>A wheeled vehicle physics simulation is controlled by a number of datablocks representing aspects of the phyical object. These are: WheeledVehicleTire, WheeledVehicleSpring and WheeledVehicleData.

<h2>WheeledVehicleTire</h2>
<table>
  <tr>
  <thead colspan=2 style="text-align:center;">WheeledVehicleEngine Console Fields</thead>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>shapeFile</td>
    <td>The path to the shape to use for the wheel.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>staticFriction</td>
    <td>Tire friction when the wheel is not slipping (has traction).</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>kineticFriction</td>
    <td>Tire friction when the wheel is slipping (no traction).</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>lateralForce</td>
    <td><p>Tire force perpendicular to the direction of movement.</p>
      <p>Lateral force can in simple terms be considered left/right steering force. WheeledVehicles are acted upon by forces generated by their tires and the lateralForce measures the magnitude of the force exerted on the vehicle when the tires are deformed along the x-axis. With real wheeled vehicles, tires are constantly being deformed and it is the interplay of deformation forces which determines how a vehicle moves. In Torque's simulation of vehicle physics, tire deformation obviously can't be handled with absolute realism, but the interplay of a vehicle's velocity, its engine's torque and braking forces, and its wheels' friction, lateral deformation, lateralDamping, lateralRelaxation, longitudinal deformation, longitudinalDamping, and longitudinalRelaxation forces, along with its wheels' angular velocity are combined to create a robust real-time physical simulation.</p>
      <p>For this field, the larger the value supplied for the lateralForce, the larger the effect steering maneuvers can have. In Torque tire forces are applied at a vehicle's wheel hubs.</p>
	</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>lateralDamping</td>
    <td>Damping force applied against lateral forces generated by the tire.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>lateralRelaxation</td>
    <td>
		<p>Relaxing force applied against lateral forces generated by the tire.</p>
		<p>The lateralRelaxation force measures how strongly the tire effectively un-deforms.</p>
	</td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td>longitudinalForce</td>
    <td>
		<p>Tire force in the direction of movement.</p>
      <p>Longitudinal force can in simple terms be considered forward/backward movement force. WheeledVehicles are acted upon by forces generated by their tires and the longitudinalForce measures the magnitude of the force exerted on the vehicle when the tires are deformed along the y-axis.</p>
      <p>For this field, the larger the value, the larger the effect acceleration/deceleration inputs have.</p>

	</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>longitudinalDamping</td>
    <td>Damping force applied against longitudinal forces generated by the tire.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>longitudinalRelaxation</td>
    <td>
		<p>Relaxing force applied against longitudinal  forces generated by the tire.</p>
		<p>The longitudinalRelaxation force measures how strongly the tire effectively un-deforms.</p>
	</td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td>rollingResistance</td>
    <td>Represents drag to act as a dampening factor when wheel is rolling (not under power).</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>mass</td>
    <td>The mass of the wheel.(Currently unused)</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>radius</td>
    <td>The radius of the wheel. (Currently unused><br>The radius is determined from the bounding box of the shape provided in the shapefile field, and does not need to be specified in script. The tire should be built with its hub axis along the object's Y-axis.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>restitution</td>
    <td>Tire restitution.(Currently unused)</td>
  </tr>
</table>




<h2>WheeledVehicleSpring</h2>

<h2>WheeledVehicleData</h2>

<p>Core datablock that defines a vehicle's drivetrain characteristics.</p>
<h2>WheeledVehicleEngine</h2>
<p>The WheeledVehicleEngine is a datablock subclass with fields to define the parameters of a vehicle's drive train.</p>
<table>
  <tr>
  <thead colspan=2 style="text-align:center;">WheeledVehicleEngine Console Fields</thead>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>minRPM</td>
    <td>Lower floor to clamp RPM value.</td>
  </tr>  
  <tr>
    <td>maxRPM</td>
    <td>Highest RPM in normal operating range.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>ildeRPM</td>
    <td>RPM value at resting engine idle.</td>
  </tr>
  
  <tr>
    <td>numTorqueLevels</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>rmpValues[]</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>  
  <tr>
    <td>torqueLevels[]</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>  
  
  <tr>
    <td>numGears</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>     
  <tr>
    <td>gearRatios[]</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>reverseRatio</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>  
  <tr>
    <td>diffRatio</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>     
  <tr>
    <td>shiftUpRPM</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>shiftDownRPM</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>transmissionSlip</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>  
  <tr>
    <td>engineDrag</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>neutralBoost</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>slowDownRate</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>inertiaFactor</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>overRevSlowdown</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  
  <tr>
    <td>minPitch</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>maxPitch</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr> 
  <tr>
    <td>minVolume</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>maxVolume</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>

  
  <tr>
    <td>fuelFlow</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>useAutomatic</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>  

</table>

